All right, guys, this is a a lecture that I took from my backend course, but I'm going to record
it again.
I'm actually going to talk through it so I can talk through this section with the operating system knowledge
essentially.
Right.
So let's do this.
Socket programming patterns.
Now that you are a programmer you can have different patterns.
We know what an acceptor is right.
It's the process that accepts.
So now we have we know the processes of socket programming.
What do we know.
Right.
We know there is an accept.
We know there is a read.
There is a write.
We know there is a listener.
These are the basic components.
So what we do, we break them up as their individual logical components.
And we as a back end programmers, we play with those for scalability and back end engineering.
So stick.
Uh, node.
What node does?
Very simple thing.
Simple design node is a single threaded applications framework.
I know some people are now already yelling at me.
No it's not.
Yes, there are threads that node uses, and basically that's the libuv that we talked about.
Which is a library that offloads all the asynchronous operations for that and that has threads.
But for the most part, for this is a single thread.
And that single thread for you.
A lesson on certain things.
You create a file descriptor that listens on port 8081 27001.
Let's say, okay, that's your listener.
And that same thread that listens owns that file descriptor.
And that same thread has a loop that accepts.
So it in itself the acceptor.
So I created a coin.
The new word that is the acceptor which is the worker that accepts it could be the same process could
be a different process.
Right.
So there is a listener.
There is the acceptor that accepts connections and creates more file descriptors, more connections.
And then there is the reader which reads from the connection.
And there is also another one that you can add the worker that actually does the work.
What?
Because reading is just reading from the kernel receive queue and putting it in your process.
What do you do with it is up to you who is actually executing the stuff, because once you read it,
you're going to do something with it and that's another task.
And guess what?
Even that.
What do you do with it?
Well, the first thing is we're dealing often with protocols, right?
Because this is DHCP.
Now higher level built on top we have the HTTP protocol.
We have SSH protocol.
We have so many protocols thousands of protocols.
Those protocols have headers and metadata, and they have, uh, you know, structures and.
They'll have their own formats.
They need to be parsed, which takes CPU time.
Because.
Oh, I just read this, buy this, buy this, buy this, buy this, buy.
Oh, find the header.
Despite this, buy this buy.
Oh, you want to be more, uh, a little bit, uh, more nuanced.
I can create my own.
Logical.
Decryptor.
Worker.
This guy is just the process of encrypting and decrypting SSL traffic.
Because that's also a job.
And you can, if you think about it this way, then you can start offloading it.
I want to put the encryption on another process.
I want to put the decryption on.
Another process might be not a good idea, but you can.
I want to do the actual processing of the protocol.
Parsing another its own thing the parser.
What else.
What else do we have?
Once you pause the protocol, what do you do with it?
You guys?
Well, if you receive, we have this beautiful thing that's called a request.
What is our request?
What is really a request I'm asking you.
It's just a string of bytes that has been parsed, but it has semantics.
And this semantics are attached with layer seven.
Uh, you know, application level, uh, concepts.
And a request like HTTP request that it means to be fulfilled.
Who is fulfilling this?
Well, the application who you need to create another worker and that's where the actual work be it
I'm.
Uh, it give me all the to do list.
That's a request.
Parsing of the protocol as HTTP or HTTP two or HTTP three, whatever.
That's its own thing.
But the actual execution of the task to process the to do list, that's in itself a different entity.
I can put it in my own process.
If my workload is so CPU bound, I can I can have a pool of worker, I can throw the knowledge stuff
there.
You know, I can play with these games.
Right.
I can put it in a queue.
I can execute, pull jobs from the queue and execute it.
It's so there is unlimited ways to slice and dice this thing and I absolutely love it.
This.
I'm certainly you see me rambling about this, but this is truly a book by itself.
I'm I one day I'm going to write a book.
I swear, because I cannot keep talking and yapping about all this stuff.
The details is lost when you speak somehow.
But the art of writing a book is to say what can never be said.
Very hard to say all of this stuff, right?
So writing a book, you can you can freely explore.
Nobody judge you.
People judge you.
If you have a one hour video, so is it one hour?
This could have been said in three minutes.
Some of you might already say that about this course.
But.
I like to think that I say related things and hopefully they are useful to you.
But nobody judges a book.
It's like, oh, this book is like 500 pages that could be condensed in one.
Nobody say that for some reason, right?
It's weird.
So book is a perfect medium.
Maybe because people read faster than they listen.
Maybe okay, but yeah, you can break these components and you can play with them.
So all right I have a listener, I have an acceptor, I have a reader, I have a parser, I have a decoder,
I have an acceptor, and I have an actual processor to process the request.
But note example of it does all of this in one thread.
It calls except for you.
You don't see it, but it's it does do an strace and you'll see it.
Then there is a memcached with this approach.
Which does.
It has the listener and the acceptors.
As one socket.
They have one process that listens and the same process accepts and creates these connections.
So these connections actually live here technically in the process, but they are siphoned into dedicated
threads.
So each thread hey you thread you have this connection.
Hey you thread, you have handled these two connections so they are sent through IPC.
Or maybe because they are thread, those already have access to the parent process shared memory so
you can access those stuff.
So the single accepting multiple threads does the reading and also maybe the processing, right.
You're reading all this stuff.
So because dealing with a lot of connections as a one process is a lot, right?
You have this massive loop, imagine it and you're looping and you're accepting.
So I want you to think like this, guys.
And even in your own.
Um.
You know, bubble in your own task.
Your application might be have the stages of workflows, and you can think of breaking things into multiple
processes as a result.
Right.
Socket management plays this game as well.
You can do all this stuff.
And proxies do this because they are so hot, the pathways so hot, and they want to minimize the number
of latencies because the proxies, you know, packets go through them.
So we need as minimum latency as possible.
Ram cloud is an interesting one.
And here's the thing Ram cloud.
The whole thing happens in a single process.
They listen, they accept and they read the packets and they build requests.
So that means also they decrypt.
And and then in that object they build a beautiful object that essentially represents the request or
the message.
And this message is are sent to the different thread.
And this is a common model that you might have be familiar with.
Well, uh, hey, I, uh, I have a single like ArcGIS server that the product I'm responsible partly
I'm responsible for and my job as does exactly this.
You know, we're spilling certain pool of threads or processes and in our case, and then we're siphoning
requests to each thread, and that thread will become busy processing that request until it's actually
released and come back.
Right.
So so this is a very common, you know, uh, example to do to this model Ram, Ram cloud does the same
thing as well.
So you essentially assign jobs to threads and ones that the job is finished, you come back and you
report the output, you know.
Here's how nginx does it.
It's very interesting.
Nginx a.
Uh.
Actually I say threads, but I think they use processes I can't remember now.
Right.
Regardless.
Hendricks forks these processes, right?
You have one listener, and then all of these guys will have multiple threads.
And all of them listen on, uh, except on the same socket.
So what what is the limitation of this.
You have a single socket and then the limitation is everywhere.
Really.
Here, here you're not accepting fast enough.
Here you're not accepting fast enough here.
You're not accepting fast enough because you have you have a lot of users coming in.
But here you're actually actually increasing the number of acceptors.
Right.
Because acceptors and readers, every acceptor is also a reader.
In this particular case, every acceptor owns the connection and they also read from it.
But you have a single listener.
So the single socket.
So a single accept queue.
And all of these people fighting over the accept queue.
And what happened when you accept.
Guess what?
This is a memory.
Shared memory.
Multiple stuff.
What do we need to do?
You guessed it.
Mutexes.
We talked about this.
Yeah.
We cannot have two people except at the same time.
That's dangerous.
We could run into race conditions.
So the kernel acquire a mutex on the accept queue.
So if I accept two, uh, connections, uh, two threads, except at the same time, uh, they are blocked.
One accepts update the queue or the hash table.
Really.
And then release.
And now you can get in.
Otherwise both connections, both threads will accept the same connections.
Yikes.
You don't want to do that.
That will be dangerous.
You will have two files pointing to the same connection.
God knows what could go wrong, right?
Oh yeah, you're of absolute corruption because one connection, one data will go to this receive queue.
One data will go to that receive queue.
Yeah.
You're done that connection is corrupt right.
So you want to protect your mutexes on that case on the accept queue.
Right.
So yeah.
Yeah play with that games.
But then you have this bottleneck right.
So you cannot really accept fast enough.
You're, you're faster than this, but you're not still fast because you're blocked on the mutex.
So what do you do.
Meats or use port which we talked about.
Right.
The way we do is everyone is a listener.
They all listen on the same port.
So they each have their own accept queue.
Technically they have their own socket and as a result they have their own accept queue.
I'm not.
Don't quote me on this n q I don't know if they share this in queue because I would share it to be honest,
but but definitely they have a dedicated accept queue right on the same port and the same IP.
Yes.
So now and the OS, you know, uh, distributes the accept queues essentially on the connections on
the accept queues.
So now if I'm accepting I'm accepting my queue.
There is no locks.
I don't need a mutex.
I'm the only listener.
I'm the only acceptor.
It's my accept queue.
And this guy is it's its accept queue.
So there is no mutex.
There is no locking.
So you can have a ten of those.
They all accept connections.
So this is the fastest way to accept as much connections as possible without getting into, you know,
blocking issues.
Right.
But do you need it.
Probably not like I'm talking about Cloudflare is nginx, is it?
You know.
A server that receives millions of connections, you know, thousands of connections per second.
And that basically the last one that I wanted to talk about.
So you see how you can build and scale by just understanding these basic data structures.
It is so absolutely fascinating in my opinion.
There in the next lecture, you guys.